doc: Add dB, dBm, dBi, and dBd to Learn (The Things Advanced) (#508)
TheThingsNetwork/docs: doc/content/lorawan/db-dbm-dbi-dbd/_index.md

## dB (decibel)

The decibel can be used to express the ratio of two physical quantities such as power, sound intensity, sound pressure, voltage, and current on a logarithmic scale. In LoRaWAN we use decibel to express the ratio between two power levels usually given in Watt (W) or milliwatt (mW).

The power ratio can be expressed in decibels using the formula, 

**dB = 10 log<sub>10</sub> (P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub>)**

where P<sub>out</sub> is the output power and P<sub>in</sub> is the input power.

{{< note "When we are dealing with the power levels we use 10log units." />}}

For example, if an amplifier turns a 1 W signal into a 1000 W signal, its power ratio can be expressed as,

dB = 10 log<sub>10</sub> (P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub>) = 10 log<sub>10</sub> (1000/1) = 30 dB

Decibel doesn’t provide an absolute value. By looking at the decibel value you can’t say the input and output power of a device or cable etc, but you can say whether it offers a gain or a loss.

A power ratio greater than 0 dB is treated as a gain. For example, if an amplifier turns a 2 W signal into a 10 W signal, the power ratio is,

> 10 log<sub>10</sub> P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub>  = 10 log<sub>10</sub> 10/2   = 10 log<sub>10</sub> 5  = 6.9 dB (gain)

Reviewer: This will read better if we add braces around the term for which the log is taken. ie. 10 log<sub>10</sub>(P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub>). Otherwise it is a little difficult to read and ambiguous. Without braces it could mean [ 10 log<sub>10</sub>(P<sub>out</sub>) ] / P<sub>in</sub>

A power ratio less than 0 dB is treated as a loss (negative gain or attenuation). For example, if 10 W of power is fed into a cable but only 8 W is measured at the output, the power ratio is,

> 10 log<sub>10</sub> P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub>  = 10 log<sub>10</sub> 8/10 = 10 log<sub>10</sub>(0.8) = -0.9 dB (loss)

Reviewer: Also add braces.

The power ratio of 0 dB means there is no gain or a loss.

## dBm (decibel-milliwatt)

If you use the reference input power of 1mW the power ratio can be expressed in dBm (‘m’ stands for milliwatt).

**dBm = 10 log<sub>10</sub>(P<sub>out</sub> / 1 mW)**

By using the above formula, P<sub>out</sub> can be expressed as an absolute value using W or mW as follows.

**P<sub>out</sub> = 10<sup>(dBm/ 10)</sup>**

For example, if a LoRaWAN gateway is rated as 22 dBm how much power does it generate in Watts?

P<sub>out</sub> = 10<sup>(dBm/ 10)</sup>  = 10<sup>(22 / 10)</sup>  = 10<sup>(2.2)</sup> = 158.48 mW = 0.158 W

> ### Rule of 10s and 3s

Reviewer: Maybe `##`?

The rule of 10s and 3s can be used easily to convert a dBm value to its corresponding absolute power value without using the logarithmic scale.

- 10 dB = x10 (makes output power 10 times as the input power, for example, input=10 W and output=100 W)
- -10 dB = ÷10 (makes output power 1/10 times as the input power, for example, input=100 W and output=10 W)
- 3 dB = x2 (doubles the power, for example, input=5 W and output=10 W)
- -3 dB = ÷2 (halves the power, for example, input=10 W and output=5 W)

> Only use 10s and 3s (positive or negaive) to express the given dBm value, for example, 1 dBm can be written as, 10 -3 -3 -3.

Reviewer: "only use" sounds like a command. Shouldn't this be "By using only 10's and 3's, one can easily calculate other gains and lossed. For example 1 dBm can be written as..."

Then apply the rule:

> 1 dB = 10dB -3dB -3dB -3dB = x10 ÷2 ÷2 ÷2 = 1.25 mW

Reviewer: We're mixing dB and dBm here.

1 dBm = 10dBm -3dBm -3dBm -3dBm = 1mW x10 ÷2 ÷2 ÷2 = 1.25 mW

Reviewer: Or should we keep to only ratios in this one? ex:
1 dB = 10dB -3dB -3dB -3dB = x10 ÷2 ÷2 ÷2 = x1.25
and then show how the m in dBm affects it. ex:
1dBm = 1mW x1.25 = 1.25mW

Author: > Or should we keep to only ratios in this one? ex:
> 1 dB = 10dB -3dB -3dB -3dB = x10 ÷2 ÷2 ÷2 = x1.25
> and then show how the m in dBm affects it. ex:
> 1dBm = 1mW x1.25 = 1.25mW

This is better

When you write any dBm value in 10s and 3s remember,
- Only use multiple of 10s and 3s
- If possible avoid using 3s
- Never use more than five 3s

Let's take another example:

If a LoRaWAN gateway has 17 dBm, how much power does it generate?

> 17dB = 10 +10 -3 = x10 x10 ÷2 = 50mW

Reviewer: 17dBm = 10 +10 -3 dBm = 1mW x10 x10 ÷2 = 50mW

## dBi (decibel-isotropic)

The gain of an antenna can be measured relative to an isotropic antenna and is expressed in dBi ('i' stands for isotropic). An isotropic antenna is a hypothetical antenna that radiates power uniformly in all directions. The gain of an isotropic antenna is 0 dB which means it has no gain or loss. 

## dBd (decibel-dipole)
The gain of an antenna can be measured relative to a reference dipole antenna and is expressed in dBd ('d' stands for dipole). A reference dipole antenna offers a fixed 2.15 dB of gain over an isotropic antenna.

The following equation represents the relationship between dBi and dBd:

**dBi = dBd + 2.15**

> ## Questions:

Reviewer: These questions are only related to antenna gains, so maybe make all three these last headings `###` and put them under on `## Antenna gains` heading?

---

> title: "dB, dBm, dBi, and dBd"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "dB, dBm, dBi and dBd"
```

section: Additional Information
description: ""
weight:
---

> In this chapter we learn about some units in brief that are used to measure the performance of transceivers (gateways and end devices) and antennas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this chapter briefly discuss some units that are used to measure the performance of transceivers (gateways and end devices) and antennas.
```

## dB (decibel)

> The decibel can be used to express the ratio of two physical quantities such as power, sound intensity, sound pressure, voltage, and current on a logarithmic scale. In LoRaWAN we use decibel to express the ratio between two power levels usually given in Watt (W) or milliwatt (mW).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The decibel can be used to express the ratio of two physical quantities such as power, sound intensity, sound pressure, voltage, and current on a logarithmic scale. In LoRaWAN we use decibel to express the ratio between two power levels usually given in watt (W) or milliwatt (mW).
```

> The power ratio can be expressed in decibels using the formula, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The power ratio can be expressed in decibels using the formula:
```

> **dB = 10 log<sub>10</sub> (P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub>)**

Reviewer 2: I don't like the way of expressing stuff here. 10log_10(P_out/P_in) is not equal to 1 dB. This is equal to their ratio in dB. You can introduce a new mark for ratio, for example N, and say that this is equal to N_dB (i.e. N in dB, because N doesn't have to be expressed in dB).

Author: > I don't like the way of expressing stuff here. 10log_10(P_out/P_in) is not equal to 1 dB.

What's wrong with this formula?

Here is a good example by Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT):
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/36432168/156375788-94da8a6d-cc09-46f7-af5b-7fe7919060e4.png)

Reviewer 2: Nothing is wrong with the formula, the notation in that document you're referencing is confusing. Why would you take "dB" as name for power gain when the unit is also named dB? It doesn't make sense to me.
Then you get this:

![prva](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/65215579/156528429-77dfcd4a-34c5-43f2-a4e4-8db0b41c7072.jpg)

Doesn't it look weird to you to write dB = 20 dB? 

Here's an example of what I think is more convenient:

![druga](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/65215579/156528453-5e7a69c7-c047-4c7c-8aa4-cac53a84dcfd.jpg)

Reviewer: I agree with @nejraselimovic here.

Author: @nejraselimovic I followed the second option. I agree with you.

where P<sub>out</sub> is the output power and P<sub>in</sub> is the input power.

> {{< note "When we are dealing with the power levels we use 10log units." />}}

Reviewer 2: I would either remove this line or add additional info on when 20 is used

Author: > I would either remove this line or add additional info on when 20 is used

@jpmeijers I am going to remove this. Would that be OK with you?

> For example, if an amplifier turns a 1 W signal into a 1000 W signal, its power ratio can be expressed as,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if an amplifier turns a 1 W signal into a 1000 W signal, its power ratio can be expressed as:
```

> dB = 10 log<sub>10</sub> (P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub>) = 10 log<sub>10</sub> (1000/1) = 30 dB

Reviewer 2: Looking at this equation now, it looks like you had an idea to express the power ratio as "dB", but you can't do that, it's too confusing. It doesn't make sense to have dB = 30 dB. If you consider what I wrote above, you could say N_dB=....=30 dB

Author: @nejraselimovic  equation updated

Decibel doesn’t provide an absolute value. By looking at the decibel value you can’t say the input and output power of a device or cable etc, but you can say whether it offers a gain or a loss.

> A power ratio greater than 0 dB is treated as a gain. For example, if an amplifier turns a 2 W signal into a 10 W signal, the power ratio is,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A power ratio greater than 0 dB is treated as a gain. For example, if an amplifier turns a 2 W signal into a 10 W signal, the power ratio is:
```

10 log<sub>10</sub> (P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub>)  = 10 log<sub>10</sub> (10/2)   = 10 log<sub>10</sub> (5)  = 6.9 dB (gain)

> A power ratio less than 0 dB is treated as a loss (negative gain or attenuation). For example, if 10 W of power is fed into a cable but only 8 W is measured at the output, the power ratio is,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A power ratio less than 0 dB is treated as a loss (negative gain or attenuation). For example, if 10 W of power is fed into a cable but only 8 W is measured at the output, the power ratio is:
```

10 log<sub>10</sub> (P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub>)  = 10 log<sub>10</sub> (8/10) = 10 log<sub>10</sub>(0.8) = -0.9 dB (loss)

> The power ratio of 0 dB means there is no gain or a loss.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The power ratio of 0 dB means there is no gain or loss.
```

> ## dBm (decibel-milliwatt)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## dBm (decibel per milliwatt)
```

> If you use the reference input power of 1mW the power ratio can be expressed in dBm (‘m’ stands for milliwatt).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use the reference input power of 1mW, the power ratio can be expressed in dBm:
```

> **dBm = 10 log<sub>10</sub>(P<sub>out</sub> / 1 mW)**

Reviewer 2: Same thing as for dB, it makes it look like this is equal to 1dBm and it is not

Author: @nejraselimovic equation updated

By using the above formula, P<sub>out</sub> can be expressed as an absolute value using W or mW as follows.

> **P<sub>out</sub> = 10<sup>(dBm/ 10)</sup>**

Reviewer 2: You can't divide dBm with 10, dBm is just a unit (like V or A). This should be "P_out_dBm" so that it's clear that you mean P_out expressed in dBm

Author: corrected

> For example, if a LoRaWAN gateway is rated as 22 dBm how much power does it generate in Watts?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if a LoRaWAN gateway is rated as 22 dBm, how much power does it generate in W?
```

Reviewer 2: Please be consistent with these units, you're alternating between "W", "Watts" and "watts" in the same text. You can define "W (watts)" in the beginning and continue using just W

Reviewer 2: Also, I wouldn't say "rated as", I would be explicit and say that the gateway's output power is 22 dBm

Author: @nejraselimovic reworded:
For example, if a LoRaWAN gateway has a gain of 22 dBm, how much power does it generate in W?

Reviewer 2: 22 dBm is not a gain, it's the output power of the gateway expressed in dBm which you then need to convert to W. Generally, dBm is a unit of power, while dB is a unit of gain

P<sub>out</sub> = 10<sup>(dBm/ 10)</sup>  = 10<sup>(22 / 10)</sup>  = 10<sup>(2.2)</sup> = 158.48 mW = 0.158 W

> ## Rule of 10s and 3s

Reviewer 2: This whole section somehow made it even harder for me to understand what's going on here. Why wouldn't we stick to a pure logarithmic calculus? If you ask me, the mathematically correct way to do this is not that hard and if you look at the formulas in this section you can easily see that they aren't really accurate (e.g. -10 dB = x10 or 1 dB = x10 /2 /2 /2 = 1.25), so I wouldn't really want to encourage people to adopt that way of doing their link budget calculations.

Reviewer: I actually liked this section. It gives the user an easy way to do conversions while in the field without a calculator.

Most important thing that we need to keep is that 3dB = double, and -3dB = half.

- 10 dB = x10 (makes output power 10 times as the input power, for example, input=10 W and output=100 W)
- -10 dB = ÷10 (makes output power 1/10 times as the input power, for example, input=100 W and output=10 W)
- 3 dB = x2 (doubles the power, for example, input=5 W and output=10 W)
- -3 dB = ÷2 (halves the power, for example, input=10 W and output=5 W)

For example, if you want to convert 1 dBm its corresponding absolute power value, 1 can be written as, 10 -3 -3 -3.

Then apply the rule:

1 dB = 10 dB -3 dB -3 dB -3 dB = x10 ÷2 ÷2 ÷2 = 1.25

Remember P<sub>in</sub> is always 1 mW and 'm' in dBm stands for milliwatt. So we multiply the above answer by 1 mW.

1 dBm = 1 mW x 1.25 = 1.25 mW

When you write any dBm value using 10s and 3s remember,
- If possible avoid using 3s
- Never use more than five 3s

Let's take another example:

If a LoRaWAN gateway has 17 dBm, how much power does it generate?

17 can be written as, 10 +10 -3

Then apply the rule:

17 dB = 10 dB +10 dB -3 dB = x10 x10 ÷2 = 50

17 dBm = 1 mW x 50 = 50 mW

## Antenna gains

The units dBi and dBd are used to express antenna gains.

> ### dBi (decibel-isotropic)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### dBi (decibel relative to isotropic)
```

> The gain of an antenna can be measured relative to an isotropic antenna and is expressed in dBi ('i' stands for isotropic). An isotropic antenna is a hypothetical antenna that radiates power uniformly in all directions. The gain of an isotropic antenna is 0 dB which means it has no gain or loss. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The gain of an antenna can be measured relative to an isotropic antenna and is expressed in dBi. An isotropic antenna is a hypothetical antenna that radiates power uniformly in all directions. The gain of an isotropic antenna is 0 dB which means it has no gain or loss. 
```

### dBd (decibel-dipole)

> The gain of an antenna can be measured relative to a reference dipole antenna and is expressed in dBd ('d' stands for dipole). A reference dipole antenna offers a fixed 2.15 dB of gain over an isotropic antenna.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### dBd (decibel relative to dipole)
The gain of an antenna can be measured relative to a reference dipole antenna and is expressed in dBd. A reference dipole antenna offers a fixed 2.15 dB of gain over an isotropic antenna.
```

A power ratio greater than 0 dB is treated as a gain. For example, if an amplifier turns a 2 W signal into a 10 W signal, the power ratio is:

N = 10 log<sub>10</sub> (P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub>)  = 10 log<sub>10</sub> (10/2)   = 10 log<sub>10</sub> (5)  = 6.9 dB (gain)

A power ratio less than 0 dB is treated as a loss (negative gain or attenuation). For example, if 10 W of power is fed into a cable but only 8 W is measured at the output, the power ratio is:

N = 10 log<sub>10</sub> (P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub>)  = 10 log<sub>10</sub> (8/10) = 10 log<sub>10</sub>(0.8) = -0.9 dB (loss)

The power ratio of 0 dB means there is no gain or loss.

## dBm (decibel per milliwatt)

If you use the reference input power (P<sub>in</sub>) of 1 mW the power ratio, _N_ can be expressed in dBm:

**N = 10 log<sub>10</sub>(P<sub>out</sub> / 1) dBm**

By using the above formula, P<sub>out</sub> can be expressed in mW which is an absolute value.

**P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub> = 10<sup>(N/ 10)</sup>**

**P<sub>out</sub> = 10<sup>(N/ 10)</sup> mW**

For example, if a LoRaWAN gateway has an output power of 22 dBm, how much power does it generate in W?

> P<sub>out</sub> = 10<sup>(dBm/ 10)</sup>  = 10<sup>(22 / 10)</sup>  = 10<sup>(2.2)</sup> = 158.48 mW = 0.158 W

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
P<sub>out</sub> = 10<sup>(N / 10)</sup>  = 10<sup>(22 / 10)</sup>  = 10<sup>(2.2)</sup> = 158.48 mW = 0.158 W
```

1 dBm = 1 mW x 1.25 = 1.25 mW

When you write any dBm value using 10s and 3s remember,
- If possible avoid using 3s
- Never use more than five 3s

Let's take another example:

For example, if a LoRaWAN gateway has an output power of 17 dBm, how much power does it generate in mW?

17 can be written as, 10 +10 -3

Then apply the rule:

17 dB = 10 dB +10 dB -3 dB = x10 x10 ÷2 = 50

17 dBm = 1 mW x 50 = 50 mW

## Antenna gains

The units dBi and dBd are used to express antenna gains.

### dBi (decibel relative to isotropic)

The gain of an antenna can be measured relative to an isotropic antenna and is expressed in dBi. An isotropic antenna is a hypothetical antenna that radiates power uniformly in all directions. The gain of an isotropic antenna is 0 dB which means it has no gain or loss.

### dBd (decibel relative to dipole)
The gain of an antenna can be measured relative to a reference dipole antenna and is expressed in dBd. A reference dipole antenna offers a fixed 2.15 dB of gain over an isotropic antenna.

The following equation represents the relationship between dBi and dBd:

> **dBi = dBd + 2.15**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**dBi = dBd + 2.15 dB**
```

### Questions:
1. Convert 5 dBi to dBd.

dBd = dBi - 2.15
= 5 - 2.15

> = 2.85 dBd

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
X<sub>dBd</sub> = X<sub>dBi</sub> - 2.15  = 5 - 2.15 = 2.85 dBd
```

2. Convert 2 dBd to dBi.

dBi = dBd + 2.15
= 2 + 2.15

> = 4. 15 dBi

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
X<sub>dBi</sub> = X<sub>dBd</sub> + 2.15 = 2 + 2.15 = 4.15 dBi
```

---
title: "dB, dBm, dBi, and dBd"
section: The Things Advanced
description: ""
weight:
---

In this chapter we learn about some units in brief that are used to measure the performance of transceivers (gateways and end devices) and antennas.

## dB (decibel)

> Decibel expresses the ratio between two power levels, for example, the output power and the input power of an amplifier. The input power (P<sub>in</sub>) and output power (P<sub>out</sub>) are usually measured in Watt (W) or milliwatt (mW).

Reviewer: `ratio between two power levels` - actually it does not have to be between power levels. dB can be used for any ratio.

Author: other things are voltage and sound, right?

Reviewer: Maybe for the purpose of this document leave it as is. Otherwise we will have to explain why there is a difference in the 10log vs 20log formulas.

Author: The main purpose of this document is to give a basic understanding of these units related to the LoRaWAN gateways, end devices, and antennas. For the things certification questions, we only focus on power levels in 10 log, conversion between dBi and dBd, the purpose of these units, etc.

> For example, an amplifier with an output of 1000 Watt when the input is 1 Watt, its power ratio or amplification factor can be calculated as,

Author: self-review - rewording
For example, if an amplifier turns a 1 W signal into a 1000 W signal, its power ratio or amplification factor can be calculated as,

**P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub>** = 1000/1 = 1000

Where P<sub>out</sub> is the output power and the P<sub>in</sub> is the input power. Furthermore, we can modify the above formula to get the answer on a logarithmic scale, in this case we use log<sub>10</sub>.

> **dB = 10 log<sub>10</sub> P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub>** = 10 log<sub>10</sub> 1000/1 = 30 dB

Reviewer: We just need to double check this. When calculation dB from power levels, isn't the formula 20 log<sub>10</sub>(x)?

Reviewer: 10 log<sub>10</sub>(x) seems to be correct from the description here: https://support.biamp.com/General/Audio/Decibels#section_18

Author: > We just need to double check this. When calculation dB from power levels, isn't the formula 20 log10(x)?

for decibel conversion of power, it is 10 log,  for voltage, it is 20 log, right?

> If you look at the above two answers, you realize that the logarithmic scale helps us to avoid very large numbers (also avoids very small numbers). The table below shows how the power ratio is related to decibel. Also note that the number 0s in the power ratio corresponds to the dB value, for example, the 4 in 40 dB corresponds to the number of zeros in the power ratio.

Reviewer: Except for decibells making the numbers smaller and more manageable, the main reason to use decibells is that dB's can be added together to add gains and losses, whereas linear ratios need to be multiplied. Adding and subtracting is a much easier and intuitive thing to do, and that's why we use dB's.

Author: yes, correct. thanks for the info. I will add this to the document.

> 

Reviewer: Somewhere around here we should also mention that 3dB means a doubling in power, and 6dB means quadrupling, as these are more useful shorthands to remember than 10x, 100x, etc.

Author: > Somewhere around here we should also mention that 3dB means a doubling in power, and 6dB means quadrupling, as these are more useful shorthands to remember than 10x, 100x, etc.

Will add them to the doc

   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>10
   </td>
   <td>10
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>100
   </td>
   <td>20
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>1000
   </td>
   <td>30
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>10000
   </td>
   <td>40
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>100000
   </td>
   <td>50
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>...
   </td>
   <td>...
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>10000000000
   </td>
   <td>100
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

Decibel doesn’t provide an absolute value. By looking at the decibel value you can’t say the input and output power of a device or cable etc, but you can say whether it provides a gain or a loss.

A ratio greater than 1.0 is a gain. For example, if an amplifier turns a 2 W signal into a 10 W signal, the signal has been increased by a factor of,

P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub> = 10/2 = 5

or a gain of,

10 log<sub>10</sub> P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub>  = 10 log<sub>10</sub> 10/2   = 10 log<sub>10</sub> 5  = 6.9 dB

A ratio of less than 1.0 is a loss (negative gain or attenuation). For example, if 10 watts of power is fed into a cable but only 8 watts are measured at the output, the signal has been decreased by a factor of,

P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub> = 8/10 = 0.8

> or a loss of,

Reviewer: `loss of 0.9dB` or `a gain of -0.9dB`

Author: > `loss of 0.9dB` or `a gain of -0.9dB`

or a gain of,
`10 log10 Pout/Pin = 10 log10 8/10 = 10 log10(0.8) = -0.9 dB` (it is a loss)
agree?

10 log<sub>10</sub> P<sub>out</sub>/P<sub>in</sub>  = 10 log<sub>10</sub> 8/10 = 10 log<sub>10</sub>(0.8) = -0.9 dB

The ratio 1 or 0 dB means there is no gain or loss.

## dBm (decibel-milliwatt)

If you use the reference input power of 1mW the power ratio of the unit can be expressed in dBm (‘m’ stands for milliwatt).

**dBm = 10 log<sub>10</sub>(P<sub>out</sub> / 1 mW)**

Example: A LoRaWAN gateway is rated as 22 dBm. How much power does it generate?

By using the above formula,

> P<sub>out</sub> = 10 (dBm/ 10)  = 10 (22 / 10)  = 10 (2.2)  = 158.48 mW

Reviewer: We lost the log / exponent somewhere in this formula. 10 * 2.2 !=158

Author: > We lost the log / exponent somewhere in this formula. 10 * 2.2 !=158

Thanks for catching it, I forgot to format the equation with `<sup></sup>`.
